Manufacturing and processing profits deduction and zero-emission technology manufacturing deduction
Lines 620 and 624 – Investment corporation deduction
Line 632 – Federal foreign non-business income tax credit
Line 636 – Federal foreign business income tax credit
Continuity of unused federal foreign business income tax credits
Carryback or carryforward of unused credits


Lines 638 and 639 – General tax reduction
Line 640 – Federal logging tax credit
Line 641 – Eligible Canadian bank deduction under section 125.21
Line 648 – Federal qualifying environmental trust tax credit
Line 652 – Investment tax credit
Available-for-use rule
Investments and expenditures that qualify for an ITC 
ITC for qualified property (Atlantic ITC)
Scientific research and experimental development (SR&ED) qualified expenditure pool
SR&ED investment tax credit and refund
Apprenticeship job creation tax credit
Investment tax credit (ITC) for child care spaces
Investment tax credit (ITC) claim
When to complete Schedule 31
Investment tax credit refund


Part I tax payable





    




    

    
        Part I tax
    




    

    
        Line 550 – Base amount of Part I tax
The basic rate of Part I tax is 38% of taxable income. To determine the base amount of Part I tax, calculate 38% of the taxable income from line 360 of page 3.

    




    

    
        On line 550, enter this base amount.
Reference
Section 123

    




    

    
        Line 560 – Additional tax on personal services business income (section 123.5)
A corporation must add to its Part I tax payable for a year an amount equal to 5% of the corporation's taxable income for the year from a personal services business.
ReferenceSection 123.5

    




    

    
        Line 565 – Additional tax on banks and life insurers
For tax years that end after April 7, 2022, an additional tax of 1.5% of the taxable income is introduced for members of bank and life insurer groups. The tax applies to any member in the group that is a bank, life insurer or other related financial institution.
A $100 million taxable income exemption could be allocated by agreement amongst group members. For a tax year that includes April 7, 2022, the additional tax would be prorated based on the number of days after April 7, 2022.
To allocate the exemption and calculate the additional tax, complete Schedule 68, Additional Tax on Banks and Life Insurers, and file it with your return. Enter the amount of the additional tax on line 565 of the return.
Reference
Section 123.6

    




    

    
        Line 580 – Total labour requirements addition to tax
For clean economy ITCs other than the clean technology manufacturing ITC, there are consequences for not complying with the labour requirements (prevailing wage requirements and apprenticeship requirements) if you elected to meet the labour requirements and claimed the credit at the regular rate.
Addition to tax for prevailing wages not paid
You will be liable to pay a dollar amount per day for each day in the installation tax year, for each covered worker who was not paid the prevailing wage, except when gross negligence applies. The dollar amount was $20 in 2023 and is adjusted for inflation in each calendar year after 2023. See the details on the consequences of failing to meet the labour requirements.
You may also be liable to pay a corrective measure in the form of a top up amount to each covered worker as per notification from the minister.
This amount is the difference between prevailing wages that were required to have been paid to the covered worker and the amount th